Welcome to Exercise #15,
called "Is Your Money Safe?"
In this exercise, we're gonna compare the fees
on the bank that you use,
and also the deposit insurance policy
on the bank that you use versus other banks.
So please go to exercise 15,
which is called, "Is Your Money Safe?"
in your complete personal finance excel dashboard.
And what I want you to do please,
is select five banks,
including the bank that you currently use,
if you use one that is.
And so, based on your country,
I entered in the five largest banks here for you,
and you can click on them
to go to their website, if you want.
Now, if you want to change the five banks
that I chose for you just
click and type on top of
each one of these five entries here for this video.
And for this exercise, if you want,
we can look at the five banks
based on the five largest ones in your country
or the ones that are closest to where you live.
Okay.
For question #1, please enter in the name
of all five banks in the white boxes here.
Okay.
I'll leave that for you to update there
if you wanted to.
And for question two, I want you to call
all five of these banks, right?
You can click on the website to get their contact details.
I want you to call all five of these banks.
And I want you to ask them the following questions
and complete the following table here,
while you're speaking with them on the phone,
or while talking to them in person
at the bank which is what I prefer to do.
Question #1.
It's about insurance.
How much of my money, your money,
is insured by the government if you were to put
your money into an account with your bank.
You're asking the bank manager this,
or somebody from the bank.
Number two, interest rates.
If I were to put my money at your bank,
and when I say I, I'm pretending I'm you
talking to the bank manager.
If I were to put my money at your bank,
what is the interest rate I would earn on my money?
Number three, withdrawal fees.
What are the fees to take money
out of your bank using a bank machine?
Number four, minimum balance fees.
Is there a minimum balance that I must have
in order to pay lower fees?
Number five, bounced check fees.
These are high sometimes.
What is the fee if I accidentally bounce a check?
Number six, closing account fees.
What is the charge if I decide to close my account?
Seven, wiring fee.
What is the fee to send a wire?
Number eight, monthly fee.
What is the monthly fee to keep my money
in an account at your bank?
Number nine, checking fee.
What is the charge to write a check?
Number 10, other bank machine fee, or other ATM fee.
Is there a charge for your bank
if I use someone else's bank machine,
meaning do they charge me and do you charge me as well,
just explain that to me please.
Number 11, foreign transaction fee.
Is there a fee that I must pay
if I spend money in other countries?
12, other fees.
What are all the other fees that
I have not asked you about?
Okay.
Next step.
If you found a bank or a financial institution
based on your research
by asking these 12 questions,
and if you feel that
other bank is a safer place to put your money,
then I recommend considering switching banks, okay?
But, don't do it without talking to your accountant
if that money in your current bank account
is in a retired, retirement tax shelter,
because I don't want you to move
the money and then pay penalties, okay?
And as a side note,
if you don't already have an investment account,
where you can buy stocks or index funds, securities,
which we'll cover in part three of the course,
then you can ask your bank,
or the banks you are researching,
if they have, or if they can recommend,
investment accounts where you can
buy financial instruments like stocks, bonds, et cetera.
And again, we'll cover that in part three
where we discuss making money.
And separately,
I just want you to please spend more time
reading your monthly bank statements
that you either get in the mail or via e-mail,
and if any fee seems higher
than you thought it should be,
then, no matter what,
please do this for me,
please call the bank right away
and ask them to cancel or lower that fee
and other fees as well.
And, you'll be absolutely,
you'll be amazed,
how often they say "Yes!"
Why?
Because hardly anybody asks.
But you will.
And you will save money because of this.
And all you have to do is ask and ask often.
And the same is true when you call your cable company,
or your phone company.
You know, complain about the fees.
And if you true them you're considering
closing your account and using
a competitor that has lower fees,
and then ask them to lower their fees,
and you'll be amazed at how much more often
they say yes than no,
and only because you did something nobody else does,
or most people don't do, you ask.
So after the crisis of 2008,
banks are so paranoid about their reputations,
and government scrutiny,
and so again,
please ask them,
and all companies for lower fees.
You got nothing to lose and everything to gain.
Separately,
if you're a student,
try asking for higher grades,
or argue about the mark of your exam,
and I promise you that if you constantly do this,
then your grades will go up by
an average of 5% in the long run, right?
Just ask often, ask often.
And, you know, you never get anything in life
unless you ask and ask often.
You'll never get a promotion unless you ask,
you'll never get a raise unless you ask,
so please ask often, thank you.